RPC text changes up to Section 10 (#4877)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

frames, which carry control information and application data between endpoints.
QUIC authenticates the entirety of each packet and encrypts as much of each
packet as is practical. QUIC packets are carried in UDP datagrams
{{!UDP=RFC0768}} to better facilitate deployment in existing systems and
networks.

Application protocols exchange information over a QUIC connection via streams,
which are ordered sequences of bytes. Two types of streams can be created:
bidirectional streams, which allow both endpoints to send data; and
unidirectional streams, which allow a single endpoint to send data. A
credit-based scheme is used to limit stream creation and to bound the amount of
data that can be sent.

QUIC provides the necessary feedback to implement reliable delivery and
congestion control. An algorithm for detecting and recovering from loss of data
is described in {{Section 6 of QUIC-RECOVERY}}. QUIC depends on congestion
control to avoid network congestion. An exemplary congestion control algorithm

> is also described in {{Section 7 of QUIC-RECOVERY}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is described in {{Section 7 of QUIC-RECOVERY}}.
```

as its behavior is consistent with an implementation that implements these
states.

> <aside><t>

Reviewer 2: Try `<aside markdown="1">`, then you can use normal markdown inside the aside.

Author: Yeah, I've started doing that on other changes, but I need to review all the open PRs for it now.

A sender MUST NOT send any of these frames from a terminal state ("Data Recvd"
or "Reset Recvd").  A sender MUST NOT send a STREAM or STREAM_DATA_BLOCKED frame
for a stream in the "Reset Sent" state or any terminal state -- that is, after
sending a RESET_STREAM frame.  A receiver could receive any of these three
frames in any state, due to the possibility of delayed delivery of packets
carrying them.

The receiver of a stream sends MAX_STREAM_DATA frames
({{frame-max-stream-data}}) and STOP_SENDING frames ({{frame-stop-sending}}).

The receiver only sends MAX_STREAM_DATA frames in the "Recv" state.  A receiver

> MAY send STOP_SENDING frame in any state where it has not received a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MAY send STOP_SENDING frames in any state where it has not received a
```

RESET_STREAM frame -- that is, states other than "Reset Recvd" or "Reset Read".

> However, there is little value in sending a STOP_SENDING frame in the "Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there is little value in sending STOP_SENDING frames in the "Data
```

Recvd" state, as all stream data has been received.  A sender could receive

> either of these two frames in any state as a result of delayed delivery of
> packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either of these two types of frames in any state as a result of delayed
delivery of packets.
```

commitments for a connection, streams are flow controlled both individually and
across a connection as a whole.  A QUIC receiver controls the maximum amount of
data the sender can send on a stream as well as across all streams at any time,

> as described in Sections {{<data-flow-control}} and {{<fc-credit}}.

Reviewer: what does "<" do?

Author: New magic.  It is rendered as "4.3" instead of "Section 4.3".

> An endpoint SHOULD limit the number of connection IDs it has retired locally and
> have not yet been acknowledged. An endpoint SHOULD allow for sending and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An endpoint SHOULD limit the number of connection IDs it has retired through
RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frames that remain unacknowledged. An endpoint SHOULD allow for sending and
```

Reviewer: This is a semantic change, but it aligns the text with its spirit.

Author: Yeah, this one makes me nervous.  I get that the original is a shade awkward, but I really don't want to touch this one.  More so when I see the mistake in your suggestion below.

Reviewer: Yup, I understand the hesitation. I'd like to see if we can make it clearer, since at the moment, the sentence structure is going to require disambiguating (and we are going to receive requests from translators asking us to disambiguate later).

tracking a number of RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frames of at least twice the value of

> the active_connection_id_limit transport parameter. An endpoint MUST NOT forget

Reviewer: How about: "The number of RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frames that an endpoint is allowed to send and track SHOULD be at least twice the value of the active_connection_id_limit transport parameter"

Author: This isn't about giving the endpoint (the one that sends RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID) a limit.  Saying "is allowed to send and track" implies that the endpoint cannot send more than this.  The point is that it might need to apply its own limits to avoid having to track too many outstanding frames.

Reviewer: Reading it now makes this more reasonable ... I think I must have been reading it differently earlier. I don't mind dropping this one ... but I'd like to discuss the one above.

### Considerations for Simple Load Balancers

> A server deployment could load-balance among servers using only source and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A server deployment could balance load among servers using only source and
```

original_destination_connection_id, preferred_address,
retry_source_connection_id, and stateless_reset_token. The client MUST use the
server's new values in the handshake instead; if the server does not provide new

> values, the default values are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values, default values are used.
```

A token sent in a NEW_TOKEN frame or a Retry packet MUST be constructed in a
way that allows the server to identify how it was provided to a client.  These
tokens are carried in the same field but require different handling from
servers.

> ### Address Validation Using Retry Packets {#validate-retry}

Reviewer 3: `Using` should be capitalized in a section title, but `during` (above) shouldn't? Just curious, are there "official" rules on which words to capitalize?

Reviewer: I'm surprised to see "during" not be capitalized.

Author: So was I.  I will ask directly and confirm that this was deliberate.

immediately during the connection attempt and cannot be used in subsequent
connection attempts.

A client SHOULD NOT reuse a token from a NEW_TOKEN frame for different
connection attempts.  Reusing a token allows connections to be linked by
entities on the network path; see {{migration-linkability}}.

Clients might receive multiple tokens on a single connection.  Aside from
preventing linkability, any token can be used in any connection attempt.
Servers can send additional tokens to either enable address validation for
multiple connection attempts or replace older tokens that might become invalid.
For a client, this ambiguity means that sending the most recent unused token is
most likely to be effective.  Though saving and using older tokens have no
negative consequences, clients can regard older tokens as being less likely to
be useful to the server for address validation.

When a server receives an Initial packet with an address validation token, it
MUST attempt to validate the token, unless it has already completed address
validation.  If the token is invalid, then the server SHOULD proceed as if the

> client did not have a validated address, including potentially sending a Retry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client did not have a validated address, including potentially sending a Retry packet.
```

datagrams that appear to be too small when they contain PATH_CHALLENGE or
PATH_RESPONSE.

### Path Validation Responses

On receiving a PATH_CHALLENGE frame, an endpoint MUST respond by echoing the
data contained in the PATH_CHALLENGE frame in a PATH_RESPONSE frame.  An
endpoint MUST NOT delay transmission of a packet containing a PATH_RESPONSE
frame unless constrained by congestion control.

> A PATH_RESPONSE frame MUST be sent on the network path where the PATH_CHALLENGE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PATH_RESPONSE frame MUST be sent on the network path where the PATH_CHALLENGE frame
```

Endpoints SHOULD abandon path validation based on a timer. When setting this
timer, implementations are cautioned that the new path could have a longer
round-trip time than the original.  A value of three times the larger of the

> current PTO or the PTO for the new path (that is, using kInitialRtt as defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
current PTO or the PTO for the new path (using kInitialRtt, as defined
```

On confirming a peer's ownership of its new address, an endpoint MUST
immediately reset the congestion controller and round-trip time estimator for
the new path to initial values (see Appendices {{A.3<QUIC-RECOVERY}} and
{{B.3<QUIC-RECOVERY}} of {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}) unless the only change in the peer's

> address is its port number.  Because port-only changes are commonly the result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
address is its port number.  Since port-only changes are commonly the result
```

with to a value that has not been used on another path.

An endpoint MUST NOT reuse a connection ID when sending from more than one local
address -- for example, when initiating connection migration as described in
{{initiating-migration}} or when probing a new network path as described in
{{probing}}.

Similarly, an endpoint MUST NOT reuse a connection ID when sending to more than
one destination address.  Due to network changes outside the control of its
peer, an endpoint might receive packets from a new source address with the same

> Destination Connection ID, in which case it MAY continue to use the current

Reviewer: This is about the value of the field, and should not be capitalized, right?

Author: We've capitalized field names, so I think that this is right.  We don't use "destination" without referring to the field.

Do you want to say "field value" here to further clarify?

Reviewer: Good point. We do use `Destination Connection ID` elsewhere too, so I think this is ok.

> Reducing the size of a Stateless Reset below 41 bytes means that the packet
> could reveal to an observer that it is a Stateless Reset, depending upon the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Stateless Reset packet that is smaller than 41 bytes can be distinguishable
as a Stateless Reset packet to an observer, depending upon the
```

> length of the peer's connection IDs.  Conversely, refusing to send a Stateless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
length of the peer's connection IDs.  Conversely, not sending a Stateless
```

> Reset in response to a small packet might result in Stateless Reset packets not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reset packet in response to a small packet might result in Stateless Reset packets not
```
